Live updates: Pro-Palestinian university protests at Columbia, UCLA, UT, campuses amid Israel's war in Gaza Open Menu Tech Media Success More Perspectives Videos Audio Search CNN Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Search Audio Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Business Evolved Innovative Cities Unhackable Media Reliable Sources Success Boss Files Risk Takers Fresh Money Invest Ahead Work Transformed Cars Homes Wealth Coach Center Piece Perspectives Videos International Switzerland India Davos Reliable Sources Passion to Portfolio On: Germany More Accessibility & CC About Us Newsletters US World Politics Business Markets Opinion Health Entertainment Tech Style Travel Sports Videos Audio CNN Underscored Coupons Weather About CNN Follow CNN Business Live Nationwide campus protests Live What's moving markets today Live Updates Police on campus at Columbia and UCLA as protests disrupt colleges nationwide By Elizabeth Wolfe, Kathleen Magramo, Dalia Faheid, Antoinette Radford, Emma Tucker, Anna Cooban, Rachel Ramirez, Aditi Sangal, Elise Hammond, Maureen Chowdhury, Lauren Mascarenhas, Chandelis Duster and Tori B. Powell, CNN Updated 4:04 p.m. ET, May 1, 2024 What we're covering About 300 protesters were arrested at Columbia University and City College of New York, officials said Wednesday, as law enforcement and demonstrators continue to clash at colleges across the country . At Columbia, officers cleared protesters from encampments and an occupied building . The university has asked New York's police to stay on campus until May 17. The University of California, Los Angeles, canceled classes Wednesday, following a night marred by violence between pro-Palestinian protesters and Israel supporters. The university said police are stationed on campus to "help promote safety.” At least a dozen people were arrested Wednesday at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, as law enforcement moved in to disassemble the campus encampment. While the demands among protesters vary at each university, the majority of demonstrations have called for the divestment from companies that support Israel and the war in Gaza . share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 70 Posts Sort by Latest Oldest Dropdown arrow 1 min ago Trump said watching NYPD clear out protesters at Columbia "was a beautiful thing to watch” From CNN's Kate Sullivan Republican presidential candidate former President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally on Wednesday, May 1, at the Waukesha County Expo Center in Waukesha, Wisconsin. Morry Gash/AP Former President Donald Trump on Wednesday described watching New York police officers clear the Columbia University building that was being occupied by pro-Palestinian protesters as "a beautiful thing to watch.” “The police came in and in exactly two hours, everything was over. It was a beautiful thing to watch, New York’s finest," Trump said during a rally in Waukesha, Wisconsin. "You saw them go up in ladders, they’re breaking the windows and getting in and that’s dangerous… They knocked it out and they were incredible." Trump said he thought Columbia University’s reputation had been “badly damaged,” criticizing school President Minouche Shafik. “The person that heads it up, a woman, she waited so long, she was so weak, she was so afraid, she was so bad,” Trump said. Shafik addressed the campus community in a letter released Wednesday after police had cleared the school grounds of protests, noting that the “drastic escalation” of months-long protests “pushed the University to the brink." share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 3 min ago Portland State University negotiations fall through, but 50 protesters leave occupied library, president says From CNN’s Veronica Miracle and Jeffrey Kopp Graffiti and some damage are seen at the Millar Library at Portland State University, after pro-Palestinian demonstrators occupied the space, in Portland, Oregon, on Tuesday, April 30. John Rudoff/AFP/Getty Images Negotiations with student protesters at Portland State University who occupied a campus library fell through early Wednesday, but about 50 people left the building on their own, the university's president said. Between 50 and 75 protesters broke into the Branford Price Millar Library on Monday, Portland Police Chief Bob Day previously told CNN. Negotiators for the students occupying the building indicated they would sign an agreement to leave the building by 1:30 a.m. local time, president Ann Cudd said. She said she guaranteed the students would not be expelled or suspended and would not face criminal charges — in exchange, the students agreed to not violate codes of conduct. The president said she also agreed to meet with student leaders on May 17 to continue talks. “I feverishly wish that the students in the library had signed on to our agreement, but, after their negotiators told us they had a deal, they apparently chose not to sign,” Cudd said. It doesn’t appear that there are many students left inside the building Wednesday, CNN observed. Cudd said it is her understanding that some people inside the library are not students. Graffiti on the library building reads “Free Gaza” and “To Gaza with love.” “Many of us have seen the vandalism to our library and while the cost of property damage cannot compare to the cost of human lives, this destructive protest is weighing heavy on our campus community who collectively pay for our facilities and expect and deserve to use them in a setting that is welcoming to all students," the president said. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 43 min ago Palestinian-American professor at University of Wisconsin-Madison injured in altercation with campus police From CNN's Fabiana Chaparro and Kara Devlin Associate Professor of Community & Environmental Sociology Samer Alatout is seen being held to the ground by University of Wisconsin-Madison Police officers on Wednesday, May 1. Tyler Katzenberger/The Daily Cardinal In a photo shared with CNN by Tyler Katzenberger from the college paper The Daily Cardinal, Samer Alatout, an associate professor of community and environmental sociology, is seen being held to the ground by University of Wisconsin-Madison police officers. In an interview with CNN affiliate WMTV, Alatout said police came to the on-campus pro-Palestinian demonstration with riot gear and began breaking up the protest. He added that protests held for the past two days had been "really beautiful, peaceful," with students from different religious and ethnic backgrounds protesting together. Alatout noted there were several university faculty and staff members present as well. The University of Wisconsin-Madison would not confirm to CNN whether Alatout had been among those arrested earlier Wednesday. According to the University of Wisconsin-Madison Police Department, a total of 34 people were arrested, a majority of whom "were released with no citation issued." "Today it seems the administration has decided to give the green light for the police force to go in and break up the protest," said Alatout, adding that the police were charging "violently" at the demonstrators. "I think it is racially motivated," Alatout told WMTV. "I'm the only Palestinian-American professor who is advising, for example, a student group here and who has been involved with the staff and faculty. Everyone in the administration knows me." Alatout said that police officers hit him several times with their shields and "popped" him on his nose and forehead. They also pulled him to the ground several times, he said. CNN has reached out to university police for more details, including whether Alatout was among the people arrested. "I cannot leave the students alone, period. That's my first and foremost obligation," Alatout said. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 33 min ago Biden left without an easy solution as campus protests heat up From CNN's Kevin Liptak and Jeff Zeleny As protests and attempts to quell them spread from New York to Los Angeles and many states in between, President Joe Biden finds himself caught in a series of political and diplomatic crosscurrents without an easy solution. He is opposed to lawlessness and the takeover of campus buildings and has strongly condemned instances of antisemitism. But he is also mindful of students’ right to protest, even when the anger is directed at his policies toward Israel. At the same time, he is navigating a highly sensitive moment in the Gaza war, as officials pursue a fresh proposal to secure the release of hostages held by Hamas. The plan, if agreed to, would result in a temporary pause in the fighting — an outcome some Biden advisers hope could lower the temperature at home. For the president, the dueling domestic and foreign policy challenges have imposed a unique burden six months before the election. It’s a rare moment that puts the demand for strong presidential leadership at odds with empathy, a trademark of his public persona. The Biden campaign is closely watching the protests unfold, particularly those in battleground states, and advisers are keenly aware of the domestic political consequences of the administration’s policy toward Israel but remain hopeful the crisis in the region will ease by the fall. “If politics was driving this, the president obviously would have changed course months ago,” a senior Democratic adviser told CNN, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive topic inside the campaign. “But there is not a simple political solution to this. It’s driven by complex policy decisions without easy answers.” Read more about the dilemma facing the Biden administration share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 33 min ago Iran university offers scholarships to students expelled from US and European universities during protests From CNN's Artemis Moshtaghian Shiraz University in Iran says it will offer scholarships to students from universities in the United States and Europe who have been expelled during the ongoing student protests connected to the crisis in the Middle East. “Students and even professors who have been expelled or threatened with expulsion can continue their studies in Shiraz University and I think that other universities in Shiraz and Fars province are prepared to do the same too," Shiraz University President Mohammad Moreno said. Shiraz is a major city in Southern Iran and the capital of Fars province. Moreno made the comments during a gathering of students and professors from several Shiraz universities in support of US and European pro-Palestinian protesters. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 19 min ago Discussions ongoing about graduation and police presence on Columbia's campus, journalism dean says From CNN's Julia Vargas Jones NYPD officers stand at the entrance of Columbia University in New York City on Wednesday May 1. Charly Triballeau/AFP/Getty Images The Dean of Columbia University Journalism School said in a memo to students that discussions are ongoing about what will happen with graduation, the ongoing NYPD presence on campus and the university’s next steps in light of Tuesday night’s events. “I anticipate learning more about those things later today,” Jelani Cobb said the memo. He praised the way student journalists covered the events as New York Police Department officers raided campus, confirming that at least some of them were forced off campus by police. "Last night’s events demanded the most from Columbia Journalism School. But we saw in real time how reporters’ dedication to the truth helps all of us understand what is at stake during a time of crisis,” Cobb said. Cobb said about 70 students and faculty advisors were able to set up a newsroom at the school’s Brown Institute to cover what happened. “By 9:30 p.m., NYPD entered campus, Hamilton Hall, and raided the encampment. During this time, they restricted the movement of CJS students. Some of our reporters were forced off campus, while others were able to return to Brown and edit their work,” Cobb said in a breakdown of how the evening unfolded. Journalist Corinne Catibayan contributed to this report. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 1 hr 31 min ago California governor says "limited and delayed campus law enforcement response" at UCLA was "unacceptable" From CNN's Chandelis Duster and Cheri Mossburg California Gov. Gavin Newsom condemned violence that occurred at The University of California, Los Angeles, overnight. “The law is clear: The right to free speech does not extend to inciting violence, vandalism, or lawlessness on campus,” Newsom said in a statement posted on social media on Wednesday. “Those who engage in illegal behavior must be held accountable for their actions - including through criminal prosecution, suspension, or expulsion.” In a separate statemen t from his office, the governor also said, “the limited and delayed campus law enforcement response at UCLA last night was unacceptable — and it demands answers.” He said his office “immediately deployed” California Highway Patrol to the campus once it was clear state assistance was needed to support the local response. "The Governor's Office of Emergency Services has been coordinating law enforcement mutual aid requests statewide, including responding for assistance at UCLA throughout the night and early morning," his office said. "The state has established a robust Law Enforcement Mutual Aid System to provide law enforcement assistance to college campuses when requested during incidents beyond the capacity of local and campus police. We stand ready to provide additional mutual aid to local law enforcement and campuses when requested." CNN has reached out to UCLA for details on the university’s police response to the clashes. It is unclear at this time how many people were arrested as a result of the violence, if any. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 1 hr 40 min ago White House points to actions against antisemitism when asked about Biden's relative silence on protests From CNN's Kevin Liptak and Betsy Klein White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre speaks during the daily briefing at the White House in Washington, DC, on Wednesday. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images The White House on Wednesday sought to answer questions about President Joe Biden's relative silence about campus protests by pointing to his condemnation of antisemitism. "No president has spoken more forcefully about combating antisemitism than this president," White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters Wednesday when asked why the country hasn't heard directly from Biden about the protests. "It is important that students and communities feel safe here and at the same time, we are going to be really forceful here and continue to underscore how antisemitism is hateful speech," she said. She said Biden had been "kept regularly updated on what's happening" and he and his team are monitoring the situation. She also repeated White House condemnations of forcible takeovers of campus buildings, saying such tactics were "not peaceful." Asked to clarify whether the White House viewed antisemitism as synonymous with the pro-Palestinian protests as a whole, Jean-Pierre said, “No,” but did not offer a clear distinction. “No – I was very clear. There is a small number of students who are causing the disruption. And I've been very clear about that. And we have to make sure that we create a safe environment – a safe environment is created for students to learn, for students to be able to go to graduation,” she said. Jean-Pierre reiterated a “small percentage” of disruptive students are taking away from other students’ experience. She said the White House would “continue to underscore that antisemitism should be called out. It is hate speech. And that should not be allowed — not on college campuses, not in communities, not in the political discourse.” Jean-Pierre was also pressed on critics in the Republican Party, including former President Donald Trump, who have compared the unrest in recent days to the 2017 White nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. “I would say to those critics, no, he's not doing a both sides scenario here," she said. Biden has said that the events of August 2017 prompted him to run for president in 2020, pointing to rhetoric from Trump that there were bad people on “both sides.” “Those things are not the same. They're just not the same. Fundamentally not the same. And it is in bad faith — it is in bad faith to say that,” she said. Next week, Biden will deliver the keynote address at the US Holocaust Memorial Museum’s annual days of remembrance ceremony on Tuesday, the White House announced earlier. CNN's Sam Fossum contributed reporting to this post. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link 1 hr 51 min ago Jewish student at University of Wisconsin-Madison says protest was peaceful until police arrived From CNN’s Whitney Wild, Bill Kirkos, and Leonel Mendez Mia Kurzer, University of Wisconsin Madison student who was on campus when police moved in Wednesday morning, speaks with CNN. CNN A University of Wisconsin-Madison student, who was on campus when police moved in Wednesday morning, told CNN the campus protest was "peaceful" until the police showed up. Mia Kurzer said she has been acting as a de-escalator during the protests and is prepared to stay until the group’s “needs are met,” specifically noting transparency and divestment. Demands among protesters vary at each university, but the majority of protests have called for the divestment from companies that support Israel and the war in Gaza . Kurzer, who is Jewish, said she does not see this protest as antisemitic. “It’s not Jewish versus Muslim, it’s peace versus violence,” she said. This morning, Kurzer said police officers lined up with shields in front of the encampment and started pushing in as protesters pushed back. “It was peaceful until they came,” she said of the officers. “This is a government-funded university, it’s a public space, we’re not doing anything, we’re not blocking the sidewalks, we’re no harassing anyone, we’re not doing anything wrong.” she said. “There’s no violence on our side, there’s no ill will on our side.” The encampment has re-emerged following the police interaction this morning. Kurzer said most of the tents up now were put up after police cleared the area. share with Facebook share with Twitter share with email share link Search Audio US Crime + Justice Energy + Environment Extreme Weather Space + Science World Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United Kingdom Politics SCOTUS Congress Facts First 2024 Election Business Tech Media Success Perspectives Videos Markets Pre-markets After-Hours Market Movers Fear & Greed World Markets Investing Markets Now Before the Bell Nightcap Opinion Political Op-Eds Social Commentary Health Life, But Better Fitness Food Sleep Mindfulness Relationships Entertainment Movies Television Celebrity Tech Innovate Gadget Foreseeable Future Mission: Ahead Upstarts Work Transformed Innovative Cities Style Arts Design Fashion Architecture Luxury Beauty Video Travel Destinations Food and Drink Stay News Videos Sports Pro Football College Football Basketball Baseball Soccer Olympics Hockey Videos Live TV CNN Headlines CNN Shorts Shows A-Z CNN10 CNN Max Audio CNN Underscored Electronics Fashion Beauty Health & Fitness Home Reviews Deals Money Gifts Travel Outdoors Pets CNN Store Coupons Weather Climate Storm Tracker Wildfire Tracker Video About CNN Photos Investigations CNN Profiles CNN Leadership CNN Newsletters Work for CNN Audio Follow CNN Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility & CC Ad Choices About Us CNN Store Newsletters Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource Sitemap © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network. Please enable JavaScript for a better experience.